
Dear Pat,

Thanks for all the work you've put into pulling this report and journal
article together!

We have some suggestions on the text that we'll send you in a doc file.

But I have a comment that the group as a whole might want to consider.  I
was of course disappointed to see that the GeoClaw results for
Problem 1 were so much of an outlier relative to most others, and
mystified as to why the results reported by Hongkie Thio and
Wenwen Li using their version of GeoClaw seemed to be so different,
in spite of apparently using the same parameters.  So I've been
doing some more runs to try to sort this out.

One thing I discovered is that there was a bug in the GeoClaw Riemann
solver in the case of low flow depth that Wenwen pointed out to me, but
that was not included in the version of GeoClaw I was running last
spring.  Making that change to the Riemann solver gave significantly
different results, with smaller peak velocities, making them more in
line with other results.  

Also, we did not put much effort into optimizing parameters last
spring, but I notice that many groups used a coarser grid than we
did, by a factor of 2, which of course adds more dissipation if I
switch to that resolution.  And we originally set the friction
factor to 0 away from the island, whereas increasing this to 0.005
for example also improves the agreement.

I'm attaching the gauge comparison with this new version and also the
original from the workshop.  

I realize it's too late to modify the submitted results, but the point I
would like to bring up is that this problem is extremely sensitive to
parameter choices, mesh size, etc. and so I think we need to be very careful
about setting criteria for codes based on this benchmark.  I made this
point at the workshop and before, when I showed that simply changing the
target Courant number from 0.9 to 0.89 made significant differences in
the vortex generation, plots at
  http://depts.washington.edu/clawpack/geoclaw/benchmarks/nthmp_currents_2015/problem1/index.html

Moreover, I think it is a problem that this wave tank experiment was
done in 5.4 cm of water.  At this depth the friction terms are
critical of course, in a way that is not at all representative of real
tsunami current modeling problems.  Even when looking at overland
inundation the currents don't matter much at that depth, and for looking
at things like vorticity generation in harbors the depth is much larger. 

So I would like to argue against using this problem as a future
benchmark problem in the context of approving codes for modeling tsunami
currents.  But I'd be happy to hear what others think of this?



